Buildaria’s changelog
===================

1.8.2 (December 15th, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------
* itemHax now has a rewritten output chat message.
* The Light On output message has been tweaked.
* Teleportation Update! You can now teleport to each ocean! `F3` for the left, `F4` for the right!
* Statue inventories are now sorted by usefulness. One inventory can be triggered with wires, the other can't.
* Christmas inventory (1.1.1 items) added.


1.8.1 (December 11th, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------
* Added Pickaxe, Hammer, and Phaseblade to the Mechanical inventory (oops?).
* Added Empty Bucket, Water Bucket, and Lava Bucket to the Tools inventory.
* Moved the Mudstone Block to the Bricks inventory.
* Moved the Soils & Dirt inventory next to the Bricks inventory.
* The output chat messages have been rewritten to be a tad more informative.


1.8 (December 8th, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------
* Night Owl effects added to Light On functionality. ([#18](https://github.com/septor/Buildaria/issues/18))
* Spelunker effects added to God Mode. ([#18](https://github.com/septor/Buildaria/issues/18))
* Ruler accessory can now be toggled on and off. (default key: `R`). ([#14](https://github.com/septor/Buildaria/issues/14))
* Compass information is now displayed during God Mode.
* Trash slot moved back to the bottom right of the inventory.
* Inventories revamped to make way for the 1.1 items (which were added, btw). ([#20](https://github.com/septor/Buildaria/issues/20))
* Selection color can now be customized in the configuration file.
* Item drops are now enabled by default.
* To prevent crashing, unlimited water and lava have been disabled. Fill by selection still works.


1.7.3 (October 3rd, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------
* If a configuration item is missing from the file there is now fall back code in place.
* You can now enable autosave on inventory switch in the configuration file.
* Partial teleporting support has been added. View the README file for more information.
* Added system time display. No more windowed mode! (default key: `Ctrl-T`).


1.7.2 (September 25th, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------
* Ability to show your mouse's current X,Y location added (default key: `I`).
* Materials inventory shuffled around. Gems are now on the hotbar since they are placeable.
* Exiting ghost mode now makes you immediately susceptible to damage (if god mode is off, obviously). ([#6](https://github.com/septor/Buildaria/issues/6))
* Most non-placeable/tool type items have had their speed/power/etc normalized when itemHax is on.
* Default toggles and chat out put colors are now all managed in a configuration file. ([#2](https://github.com/septor/Buildaria/issues/2))
* Toggles and the like should no longer function if `Ctrl` or `Shift` are pressed (when they aren't needed). ([#13](https://github.com/septor/Buildaria/issues/13))


1.7.1 (September 15th, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------
* Output chat messages are now color coded. See the readme file for a chart.
* You can now toggle a light aura (default key: `F`).
* Due to the above change the Mining Helmet has been replaced with Sunglasses. Sunglasses are cool.


1.7 (September 14th, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------
* The ability to toggle the information messages has been added (default key: `K`).
* The ability to set the default spawn location has been added (default key: `L`).
* No more itemHax countdown of doom.
* Hammers, pickaxes, and grapple items are now defaulted when itemHax is off.
* Double super speed has been added. Pressing `Shift + Alt` now moves you four times as fast while in ghost mode.
* Inventories are no longer saved when you switch them. You need to manually save them (default key: `Ctrl + Shift + S`).
* Gems are now placeable.
* Placing blocks or items while the inventory is open is no longer possible.
* Swords, axes, hammers, and bows are no longer converted to Iron (unless they should be Iron) (thanks scaryguy334).
* Added Sawmill, Mug, Banners, and Spike to the inventories.
* Many other items now display correctly due to their names being fixed.
* You can once again unstack previously unstackable items (thanks scaryguy334).
* If you toggle god mode off and you die the respawn timer is now 1 second.


1.6.1 (August 11th, 2011)
-------------------------------------------------
* Last release by wraithx2. Changes undocumented (or too much work to retrieve).