## WARNINGS -- READ THIS FIRST:
* Joining multiplayer games is disabled while running Buildaria.
* Any character you load while running Buildaria will have their **INVENTORY ERASED AND THEIR STATS MODIFIED PERMANENTLY**.
* You could very possibly screw up your world. Make constant backups of your world or use a new world entirely.


# Buildaria 1.8.1

Buildaria is a Terraira mod geared towards map makers.


## Features

* Easy-to-use selection system that supports multiple shapes, copy, paste, and an undo.
* Toggle off hostile NPCs so they don't hinder your building.
* Noclip mode that let's you fly around the map and through blocks for easy construction.
* Toggle between tools that instantly destroy everything you click on or normal 100% power tools.
* Place blocks anywhere without needing background walls or adjacent blocks.
* Cycle forward to dawn/dusk instantly.
* Optional god mode just in case you fall or fly into lava.
* One second respawn if you do manage to die.
* A trash slot - you will always have inventory room.
* Infinite spectre boots.
* Toggle-able light aura for easier mining.
* Toggle-able grid for easier building.
* Depth meter, watch, and compass active with god mode.
* Multiple, saved, preset inventory pages with all the construction materials you'll ever need.
* Inventories are now loaded and saved to and from an XML file, allowing you to add, remove, and customize your own inventories.
* Color coded output chat messages to let you know what's going on... most of the time.
* Item drops are toggle-able. Default is on.
* All toggle-able defaults and chat output colors can be customized in an XML configuration file.
* Teleportation System! Get to areas of your map quickly just by pressing a button (or two)!
* Ability to set the default spawn point with the press of a button.
* Display the current X,Y coordinates of your mouse with the press of a button.
* Display the current system time with the press of a button.


## Chat Output Colors

If you are using a modified configuration file, the colors below may not be accurate.

* `Blue` - Selection/Copy/Paste/Fills/Drains
* `Brown` - Undo
* `Yellow Orange` - Load/Save Inventories
* `Red` - Set Spawn Point
* `Violet` - Coordinate Display Message
* `White` - Display Messages Toggle
* `Yellow` - Light Me Toggle
* `Cyan` - Teleport Messages
* `Green` - All Other Toggles
* `Pistachio Green` - System Time Display


## Controls

* `Right-click` - Fills the current selection with whatever the current item normally fills/destroys.
* `Alt` - Transforms the current selection in an ellipse (oval or circle). Also, causes Paste to paste upside-down, or flipped vertically.
* `Shift` - Transforms the current selection into an outline. Works with `Alt` for a circle outline. Also, causes Paste to paste backwards, or flipped horizontally.

* `Ctrl-C` - Copy the currently selected tiles.
* `Ctrl-V` - Paste your current copy to the selected position.
* `Ctrl-Z` - Undo the last selection-based modification.

* `Ctrl-Shift-S` - Save Inventories to file.
* `Ctrl-Shift-O` - Load Inventories from file.

* `T` - Toggles item speeds.
* `G` - Toggles god mode.
* `C` - Toggles NPC spawning
* `P` - Toggles between ghost mode. Noclip! Hold `Shift` to go extra fast. Hold `Shift+Alt` to go super extra fast!
* `N` - Toggles day/night time.
* `M` - Toggles item drops.
* `K` - Toggles output chat messages.
* `F` - Toggles a light aura for easier mining.
* `R` - Toggles a 1x1 grid for easier building.
* `L` - Set the currently moused-over area as the default spawn location.
* `I` - Display the current X,Y location of your mouse. (displays even if message display is toggled off)
* `[` and `]` - Switch inventories.

* `Ctrl-T` - Displays the current time according to your computer. (displays even if message display is toggled off)

* `F1` through `F*` - Built-in Teleport Locations. See below for what they are.
* `Ctrl-F1` through `Ctrl-F12` - Custom Teleport Locations. Add these to the configuration file. See below for the format to use.


## Teleportation

You can teleport to locations on your map by pressing the function (eg: `F1`) keys. Below is a list of built-in locations, the list will grow as more locations are added:

* `F1` - Default Spawn Location

Custom locations can be set up in the configuration file and you can get to these by pressing `Ctrl` followed by the corresponding function key. Below is how you need to add them to the configuration file:

	<customTeleports>
		<F1>Location Name,X,Y</F1>
		<F2>Location Name,X,Y</F2>
		<F3>Location Name,X,Y</F3>
		<F4>Location Name,X,Y</F4>
	</customTeleports>

You can obtain the X and Y integers in-game by pressing `I`. Anything up to F12 will be accepted and usable. If you add more (eg: `F13`) it will be ignored.

**It is very important that you follow the above syntax when entering custom locations! Failure to do so will result in Buildaria crashing!**

## Items Explained

* `Phaseblade` - Acts as the selection tool. Click and drag to select a box area. Right-click to clear selection. Works with any phaseblade color.
* `Pickaxe` - Destroys any blocks that a normal pick would destroy, only instantaneously and without range. Right-click to clear selection of pick-able tiles.
* `Hammer` - The same as the pickaxe, only it acts as a hamaxe. Right-click to clear selection of hamaxe-able tiles.
* `Blocks` - Works normally, only you can place multiple blocks much faster than normal. Right-click to fill.
* `Walls` - Works normally, only you can place multiple walls much faster than normal.
* `Decorations` - Works normally, only you can place multiple decorations much faster than normal. I do not recommend using the right-click functionality with decorations!
* `Filled Buckets` - Aside from their normal functions they fill the selection area by right-clicking.
* `Empty Buckets` - Aside from it's normal function it removes any liquid within the selection area by right-clicking.

### ItemHax Note

If itemHax is disabled some items behave differently than mentioned above.

* `Hammer` acts exactly like a Molten Hamaxe.
* `Pickaxes` act like a cross between a Nightmare Pickaxe and a Molten Pickaxe, taken the best of both into consideration.
* `Ivy Whip` and `Grappling Hook` behave normally.


## How to Install

1. Put `Buildaria.exe` in your Terraria folder with `Terraria.exe`. This is usually found here: `Program Files/Steam/steamapps/common/terraria/`
2. Run `Buildaria.exe`!


## Build from the source

If you want to compile your own version of Buildaria follow the below steps:

1. Download the [source](https://github.com/septor/Buildaria/zipball/master).
2. Install [XNA Game Studio 4.0](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/en/details.aspx?FamilyID=9ac86eca-206f-4274-97f2-ef6c8b1f478f).
3. Open the Buildaria solution file `Buildaria.sln` in Visual Studio.
4. In the Solution Explorer, expand `References`.
5. Delete `Terraria`.
6. Right-click `References` and select `Add Reference...`.
7. In the dialog box, click `Browse` and locate your `Terraria.exe` file inside `Program Files/Steam/steamapps/common/terraria/`.
8. Build!
9. To test your changes copy the `Buildaria.exe` file from `bin\x86\Release` to your Terraria folder: `Program Files/Steam/steamapps/common/terraria/` and run it!